The procedure for evaluating the subjective quality of a process in composition
should be undertaken as follows:

Preparation of data:

  - Train the algorithm using a set of appropriate similar melodies selected by
    the composer

Testing procedure (repeat as necessary):

  - Allow composer to write a melody corresponding to the fundamental similarity
    requirements of the training set (meter, length, etc), sans the final
    [4,2,1] bars
  - Have the machine interact with the composer to attempt to finish the piece,
    with some upper bound on the number of interactive iterations
  - Allow the composer to make edits to the machine's output until it becomes
    satisfactory, recording the number and type of edits made

The main evaluation metric of this test is the total distance between the
original machine output and the edited output (planned to be measured by the
number and type of edits needed to bring the piece to an acceptable level of
quality). 0 distance is a perfect score, while maximum distance is the worst
possible score.

Important detail:
This experiment has no control case as is. This means that the experiment is
fundamentally broken from a scientific perspective. This is because there exists
no "unbiased" alternative - the only alternative material providers are other
composers, who will vary immeasurably in compatibility with the active composer.
Furthermore, there would be a clear bias available to the active composer as it
would not be possible for them to be unaware of which material source was the
machine.
Two possible imperfect solutions are:
  - Instead of having the active composer compose from scratch, instead give
    them the first portion of an already written piece. First have them interact
    with the machine and record distance, then have them interact with the original
    composer. This is heavily flawed as it still leaves the compatibility and
    awareness issues, and the active composer may be heavily biased to the original
    composer due to trying to emulate their style in the compositional process.
    It does however make the bias less "random," which helps for getting viable
    results.
  - Provide the composer with a randomly generated musical piece and have them
    attempt to edit it until satisfactory. This has the advantage that it serves
    as a good "baseline" for the machine composition to compare to. The
    randomness will cause some variance in the results, and the experiment may
    have to be repeated many times to overcome the noise.
